there's just no other way to do this um
nvidia i completely retract my previous
apology the geforce gtx 1660 super is
literally a gtx 1660 but with gddr6
memory it's no more it's no less and if
i was as lazy as you i would just end
the video right here
except that this card actually gives us
a great opportunity to see just how much
of a difference a generational leap in
memory technology can make
to what is otherwise the same card
so watch on friends because there's more
to this than meets the eye and even if
you don't end up buying one for yourself
there is a good chance you're going to
end up recommending a 1660 super to a
friend on a budget the most interesting
part of this whole launch is the
features even if they aren't exclusive
to the new cards first up is what nvidia
calls null nvidia ultra low latency an
obvious me too version of radeon
anti-leg and while you might be thinking
well yeah linus but they've had that for
months now
and you'd be right before it was
incompatible with g-sync
now you can enable both g-sync and null
at the same time which means you don't
have to choose between responsiveness
and smooth stutter and tear-free output
then there's the image sharpening
support that is now built into the
nvidia control panel rather than
requiring geforce experiences freestyle
overlay and
great
i mean i didn't really get it when amd
introduced radeon image sharpening
and now it's spreading i mean don't get
me wrong if you like it then it's great
that it's in the control panel only
problem is that it looks horrible and
you're utterly tasteless for liking it
no offense
and anyway the big new feature includes
support for applying a sharpening filter
already anyhow
so okay if you've never heard of reshade
or speedfx before essentially what it
does is hook into the game and provide a
way to customize the aesthetic to your
liking there is an impressive list of
presets available for all kinds of
different games from toon shading all
the way up to hyper realistic hdr
effects with every step in between and
every little knob and dial is tweakable
by you the user well now nvidia is
including reshade support in geforce
experience that means you no longer have
to manually copy dll files into each
individual games folder in order to add
and tweak those filters they're right
there in the overlay that you may or may
not already be using
now it doesn't support all filters with
all competitive titles and non-official
custom filters are only supported on
games that explicitly allow them but
this is a really cool first step and is
big news to the point where i mean who
knows maybe this is the feature that'll
win over a big chunk of the geforce
experience skeptics out there as i
alluded to in the intro this video
though all those features are rolling
out in software for the entire touring
lineup and for all intents and purposes
the hardware launched is just a gtx 1660
with a memory upgrade
fortunately though it is a big one going
from 192 gigabytes a second to a
whopping
336 gigabytes a second with gddr6 ram is
a big deal because up until now the
lowest end card that you could get with
memory that fast was the rtx 2060
so just how memory bottlenecked was the
1660. to find out we set up our test
bench with a fresh windows 10 install on
the latest bios and drivers using envy
clean stall and it didn't take long to
validate nvidia's claims that the new
card is close to a 1660 ti remarkably we
were just one or two frames off at most
in shadow of the tomb raider and
borderlands 3 even in our percentile
minimums it looks like gaming really was
memory starved now we do diverge a
little bit more in rainbow six siege
albeit still while maintaining over 100
fps and csgo for its part seems to care
very little about the extra memory
bandwidth but we would expect nothing
less for a
well a less memory intensive title so
take note guys if you play mostly older
or graphically simple games the super
might not make that big of a difference
speaking of which while productivity
isn't this card's major selling point
and the difference isn't major it is
still an improvement over the 1660
non-super in some areas like blender and
it actually overtakes the 1660 ti in
v-ray and octane where its higher core
clocks and fast memory are more
important than its lower cuda core count
otherwise though we've got improvements
across much of spec view perf and then
not much else it's clear that this is a
gaming card first and a content creation
card second with the only exception
being the inclusion of turing's
excellent end bank engine which offers
x264 like hardware encoding to mid-range
gamers and especially streamers along
with anyone else who might appreciate it
taken together then we have a strange
situation on our hands here where the
weaker gtx 1660 is gonna stay within
about twenty dollars of the super while
the ti is going to cost a cool 50
dollars more with very little extra bang
unless you want to overclock its extra
cuda cores so nvidia essentially
obsoleted both of those older skus but
then
didn't discontinue them the good news is
that's nvidia's problem not yours so for
anyone who's looking for a solid 1080p
and
sometimes 1440p gpu and especially
anyone that wants to get started with
streaming their gameplay this one is
kind of a no-brainer
with an asterisk the rdna-based radeon
rx 5500 series is on the way to replace
amd's aging rx 500 series that quite
frankly just couldn't keep up in modern
titles in our testing
so then 1660 super is the current
lightweight champ but until we know how
the entry-level rdna cards perform and
what price they'll launch at it's hard
to say go out and buy it now
so get subscribed so you don't miss our
upcoming review of those other cards
another source of hesitation for us is
that as advocates of deal hunting used
hardware in this particular price range
we really liked some of the deals that
we saw on 1070 series cards and radeon
rx vega 56s some of which can be flashed
with the vega 64 bios for improved
performance with that said we fully
understand that not everyone is
comfortable with buying used pc parts
and the used market is both volatile and
eventually runs dry
so with that in mind
nvidia
good work i make no apologies whatsoever
about recommending this card
so hope you liked the video if you guys
enjoyed diy pc hardware we did a recent
video testing out some mystery me
chinese cpus that you guys might like
we're gonna link that below
see ya